





Manual



For



‘Evite’ System







Rowan University


Ashley West, Nick Ferraro, Travis Rice












Table of Contents

Part 1:  Back End Installation and Setup

1    Installing Dependencies ............................................................................................ 1

1.1        Ruby on Rails Installation....................................................................................................... 1
1.2        Text Editor Installation............................................................................................................ 5
1.3        References............................................................................................................................ 5

Part 2:  User’s Guide to ‘Evite’ System

2    Getting Started........................................................................................................... 6

2.1        Creating an Account.............................................................................................................   6
2.2        Managing Your Account........................................................................................................   6

3    Events……….………................................................................................................. 6

3.1         Creating an Event.............................................................................................................   6
3.1.1         Inviting Guests.................................................................................................................   6
3.1.2         Creating a Potluck............................................................................................................   7
3.1.3         Uploading Image.............................................................................................................   7
3.1.4         Guest Password...............................................................................................................   7
3.2         Editing an Event ..............................................................................................................   7
3.3         Deleting an Event ............................................................................................................   7
3.4         My Events Page ...............................................................................................................   7

4    RSVP, Select a Potluck Item, and Comments...........……..…................................ 8

4.1    Guest RSVP…………….................................................................................................................   8
4.2    Selecting a Potluck Item…........................................................................................................   8
4.3    Comments….............................................................................................................................  8
4.4    Email Notifications...................................................................................................................   8

5   Bugs….….…………..................................................................................................... 8








Part 1: Back End Installation and Setup
1:  Installing Dependencies
1.1:  Ruby on Rails Installation

	There are a few ways to install Ruby on Rails.  The easiest of which can be found using the method on the following website:  railsinstaller.org.  RailsInstaller has everything you need to get started using Rails.  A single click will download all the necessary packages to start working. The following packages for Windows are included:

•	Ruby 1.9.3
•	Rails 3.2
•	Bundler 1.0.18
•	Git 1.7.6
•	Sqlite 3.7.3
•	TinyTDS 0.4.5
•	SQL Server Support 3.3.3
•	DevKit

For Mac, the following packages are included:

•	Ruby 1.9.3
•	Rails 3.2.7
•	Git 1.7.9.6
•	Sqlite 3070500
•	Osx-gcc-installer 4.1
•	JewelryBox 1.3.0
•	RVM 1.14.2
•	SM 0.10.3

Steps for Windows Users to complete installation and create a small demo:

1.	Open the downloaded file to begin the installation and follow the onscreen instructions.
2.	Once installation is complete it will bring up the Windows Command Line asking for your name and email address.  Once you enter both you should see your generated public SSH key which you will need later.
3.	Next you’ll need to create a new rails application via the command line. Enter the following line of code:
		rails new railsinstaller_demo
4.	Once it’s complete we can now visit the application folder and start the Rails server to see the site in our browser.  Enter the following lines of code:
		cd railsinstaller_demo
		rails s
	Now you can visit http://localhost:3000 in your web browser and see 	the default Rails welcome page.
5.	The following steps require a text editor (see Text Editor Installation, 1.2).  Open your rails demo inside your text editor and find /config/routes.rb, once you are there uncomment the following line of code by removing the “#” sign in front of it.  Be sure to save after doing so.
		root :to => ‘welcome#index’
6.	Next you’ll need to visit the command line prompt and create a welcome controller for the index action. Enter the following line of code to do so:
		rails g controller welcome index
7.	Now let’s edit the welcome index.html which can be found under app/views/welcome/index.html.erb and change the content to say something like the following:
		<h1> Welcome to the Rails Installer </h1>
	Be sure to save that file.
8.	Now remove the file at /public/index.html by right clicking on it and deleting it.  Refresh your browser and you should see your page.
9.	Congratulations, Rails is officially installed on your computer.
	
Steps for Mac Users to complete installation (slightly different) and create a small demo:

1.	Open the downloaded TAR file to begin the installation and follow the onscreen instructions to setup GIT. This takes several minutes to do.
2.	Once installation is complete go ahead and open up Terminal under 	/Application/Utilities 
3.	In order to check and make sure everything was installed okay, enter the following lines of code to display information on the current versions you have:
	git –version :  Display version of GIT you have.
	rvm info : Display information about your Ruby Version Manager.
	ruby –v : Display information about your Ruby version.
	rails –v : Display information about your Rails version.
4.	Next you’ll need to create a new rails application. Enter the following line of code:
		cd Desktop/
		rails new railsinstaller_demo
5.	Once it’s complete we can now visit the application folder and start the Rails server to see the site in our browser.  Enter the following lines of code:
		cd railsinstaller_osx_demo
		rails server
	Now you can visit http://localhost:3000 in your web browser and see 	the default Rails welcome page.
6.	The following steps require a text editor (see Text Editor Installation, 1.2).  Open your rails demo inside your text editor find /config/routes.rb, once you are there uncomment the following line of code by removing the “#” sign in front of it.  Be sure to save after doing so.
		root :to => ‘welcome#index’
7.	Next you’ll need to visit the command line prompt and create a welcome controller for the index action. Enter the following line of code to do so:
		rails g controller welcome index
8.	Now let’s edit the welcome index.html which can be found under app/views/welcome/index.html.erb and change the content to say something like the following:
		<h1> Welcome to the Rails Installer </h1>
	Be sure to save that file.
9.	Now remove the file at /public/index.html by right clicking on it and deleting it.  Refresh your browser and you should see your page.
10.	Congratulations, Rails is officially installed on your computer.
	
1.2:  Text Editor Installation

	There are many different text editors available online for free to anyone.  All of them serve the same purpose and it just comes down to preference which one you decide to use and code with.  Here are some available text editors that are popular amongst web developers:

•	JetBrains
•	Aptana | Studio
•	Intype
•	NetBeans
•	jEdit
•	ScriptDevelop
•	Redcar
•	Sublime Text Editor
•	Zeus
•	Sapphire Steel
•	TextMate

Some of these are designed specifically for either Windows or Mac.  Sublime Text Editor served as our text editor for this website.  It works great!  So, depending on which you choose, download, install and follow the onscreen instructions to complete installation.  After you have done this, you can really get started coding and running your programs!

1.3:  References

	The standard library for Ruby is of great use as well as the Rails API; they are both very helpful with coding:
	
•	http://www.ruby-doc.org/stdlib-1.9.3/
•	http://api.rubyonrails.org/

Part 2: User’s Guide to ‘Evite’ System
2:  Getting Started
2.1:  Creating an Account

	When one visits the website, they are greeted by a home page, welcoming them to the site.  On the home page it explains a little about the site and informs the guest that they must make an account so they can start sending out invitations to events.  So, in order to do this, the guest must click on ‘Register’ located at the top of the page.  Upon clicking this link, the guest will provide their own username, email, and password.  Make sure the passwords match!  Now you officially have an account with the website.  Login using the information you provided and get started sending out invitations!

2.2:  Managing Your Account

	When you finally make an account, login with it and it will bring you to your user home.  On the user home page, you can see the events you created, a link to edit your profile settings, a link to create a new event and a link to logout.  

	Using the edit profile link allows you to change your username, update your email, and change your password.  Hit the ‘Back’ link or the ‘My Home’ link to get to your user home.


3:  Events
3.1:  Creating an Event

	Upon logging into your account and accessing the user home page, there is a link that reads ‘Create New Event’.  Click on this link and it will bring you to a page with a long form.  The fields Title, Host Name, Phone Number, Location, Address, City, State, Zip, Date, Time, and Guest Password are mandatory and cannot be left blank.  Enter your desired information and then continue on to fill out the rest.  The other fields are Event Type, Description, Adding Guests, Potluck, RSVP options, Guest List Privacy, and the Image.  

3.1.1:  Inviting Guests

	After filling out the required information, you can add guests to your party by clicking on the add guest link as many times as desired.  There is no limit to how many guests you can add.  Enter in their email address and they will be emailed with your event’s information. The guest password will allow them to login and see the event.  For more information on this, see 3.1.4. Also, in order to add more guests to the event, see Editing an Event, 3.2.


3.1.2:  Creating a Potluck

	After filling out the required information, you can add the option of a Potluck to your event.  After clicking the checkbox, a form will pop up similar to the add guest link.  The same procedure goes here, enter in any desired items in the text boxes and you can go on after this.  There is also no limit to how many items you can add.  

3.1.3:  Uploading Image

	After filling out the required information, you can add guests to your party by clicking on the add guest link as many times as desired.  There is no limit to how many guests you can add.  Enter in their email address and they will be emailed with your event’s information. The guest password will allow them to login and see the event.  For more information on this, see 4.2.  
  
3.1.4:  Guest Password

	The guest password is very important.  It is used every time a guest tries to view your event.  Without this password there is no way for them to log on and see your event information.  The password is in the email notifying the guest of the invitation.

3.2:  Editing an Event

	Editing an event is very easy.  Simply go to your user home page and click on edit right next to the event you wish to update or change.  Inside here you can add more guests, add more potluck options, and change or update any fields you like.  Whenever an event is edited, an email notification is sent out to the new guests and old guests notifying them of the change.  

3.3:  Deleting an Event

	Deleting an event is even easier than editing one.  Simply go to your user home page and click on destroy right next to the event you wish to get rid of.  It will pop up a prompt asking you if you are sure you want to delete the event, ‘yes’ will destroy it, option ‘no’ will obviously leave it there.

3.4:  My Events Page

	This page was designed to make it extremely easy to manage and handle all of the events the host owns.  With this page, the user can easily, view the event, edit the details of the event, or destroy the event.  It is organized and looks much better than having to visit multiple pages to see your event.


  

4:  RSVP, Select a Potluck Item, and Comments
4.1:  Guest RSVP

	The Guest RSVP options are determined by the host.  They may have the option to select Yes, No, or Maybe, or just Yes, or No.  When a guest logs on using their email and guest password they can choose which option to submit.  After the guest picks on and submits it, the host is notified of their response.  Then the guest may log back in using the link provided in the email to continue viewing the event or stay on the home page.  The guest can choose to update their response by logging back in as well.
4.2:  Selecting a Potluck Item

	The guest may want to bring one of the items for the potluck.  If this is the case, the guest can log in and view the event.  Under the potluck section, the list of possible items is displayed.  The guest can click ‘Bring Me!’ and the host will be notified about the guest who clicked whichever item.  A text message will also appear thanking the guest for choosing an item to bring.  
4.3:  Comments

	The guest and host can also leave comments on the events page in order to discuss any questions, concerns, or even just chat.  Located at the bottom of the event’s page inside a scroll box.  There is a text area where the guest or host can type their message and hit ‘Create Comment’.
4.4:  Email Notifications

	The host is always notified when a guest responds to the invite, chooses to bring an item for the potluck and whenever the event is created.  The guest is always notified when the host updates an event and when a host invites the guest to the event.  Inside the email to the guest when an event is created is the guest password and link to the event.  This email is very important because it is necessary to view the event page.


